# 1

1. I don't have any time for that.
2. I ain't got no time for that.
3. Unfortunately that wont fit into my time schedule at this time.

## a

3, 1, 2

## b

The latter of the three is very thoughtfully formulated to convey a neutral tone whilst the other two are _comparatively_ loosely and directly formulated. The prior expresses it's meaning very harshly and concisely with a uniform tone. The second uses copious amounts of slang leading to it sounding lossy and scuffed together.

# 2

## a

### I

The text used in this situation is fittingly formal. The language used stands out to me as american which in my mind makes it a bit less formal. I may be bias in this situation thought.

### II

In this situation the language used seems; at best lacking at worst borderline self-destructive. This depends on the context. If the employee works in for example fastfood / retail then it's a bit more suitable. Otherwise I would most certainly not use this language.

## b

Employee: I is getting more and more difficult to pay the bills. Thenceforth I am requesting a raise. This will lead to an increase in bought productivity and possible hours since i will be capable of working adequately.

Employer: Your arguments are compelling but more company recourses can not be allocated to a singular employee. If this is still an issue proceeding this billing period please seek a higher position.


# 3

* Abbreviations - btw (by the way)
* Contractions (This can be used in a formal context but can be seen as some as informal) - won't (will not)
* 'Speaking with sounds' - B (be)
* emojis - :frown:

'unfortunately, I will not be capable of coming to the desired location this evening based on a unforeseen change of events.'

