# Part 1: A better form of education

Conventional education is fundamentally flawed. What do I mean by this? You don't have to learn a subject as long as you are ready for a test. Why is this statement accurate? The modern school system is a ski trip across the top &mdash; when it should be a diving expedition. Through that, when offered a metaphorical diving experience one should not forsake the opportunity! This is why I believe the given _'In-depth study'_ was so important. It lets us see the subject from a different, greater point of view.

The field I decided to analyse was the benefits of dyslexia. This task was really important for me since I am dyslectic and it gave me a chance to formulate myself in a more profound and concise manner. This in turn let me present the subject in a way that's greater than surface level, greater than solely its perils. In this subject more than others. Why? Well if you're like the general public when you hear the word dyslexia you may immediately associate it with lower lexical capacity &mdash; or even stupidity. Yet it's so much more. As stated in my presentation it's a complete rewire; a non-conventional approach to thinking from within the world we live in.

In conclusion, the benefits of an _'In-depth study'_ are immense &mdash; far outweighs any impact upon the variety of the subject matter. Having a specialized skill set is greatly beneficial to a work environment both before and during employment. I could even state that I would prefer a school system with more emphasis on tasks like _'In-depth study'_ for example the English A-level system where you only take 3 - 5 specialized subjects. I say this because I believe knowledge within a smaller subsection of subjects will be more useful when it comes to utilizing them in a work environment.

# Part 2 (sub 4): Harstad, a city of opportunity or just another dull location

Welcome to Harstad, a great city with a beautiful view over the mountains and Vågsfjord. Here you can come study at our university, stay in one of our beautiful hotels overlooking the ocean, take a trip up a mountain or simply just roam the streets. This is what I want to say, yet [ like communism ] it's not that great in practice. Harstad may be a beautiful city, an excellent retirement location. Just imagine, you wake up and walk out onto your balcony instantly hit by fresh air straight from the ocean. You enjoy the 'lovely' weather as you hear the waves break no more than 30 meters away from your house. Sounds like the perfect Elysian fields. A place where favoured heroes march their way to metaphorical heaven. But it could not be further from the truth. Sure, maybe it's nice for your average retiree but not for many other psychographics. Let's discuss why.

To kick things off with a bang the education opportunities here are abysmal, we have a nice 6<sup>th</sup> form college but not much else. The excuse of a university prior stated has an even smaller association of courses than Harstad has of activities for the youth. To quote their website 'the fields we cover include medical and social studies, economics and leadership' <sup>Source: [Faglige retninger &ndash; Harstad | UiT](https://uit.no/sted/harstad/fagligeretninger)</sup>. There are only 4 fields one's the ability to study! That's absolutely nothing, and 2 of them can be grouped into one category reducing it to 3. And to add insult to injury, the size of Harstad does not help the possibility of there being qualified professors here. Therefore, I would not condone studying here in the slightest.

But what about youth activities? What public, non-invite-only activities are there really to choose from? Not many. There are only two monoliths within this sector: Radio Harstad (RH) and Ungdommens Hus Harstad (UH). These overshadow any other alternatives just through their sheer mass, and they're not even that big. Whilst other cities might have clubs connected to their schools giving students the ability to socialize in a wide array of activities, we have no such thing in Harstad. If you want to start a club you either need to do it independently leading to a lot of work with not much of a build foundation or go through UH/RH. These are of course viable options but as prior stated, you do not have the support you have through school organized clubs. Since there are so few specialized clubs it's hard for newcomers to integrate nicely as it's harder to find people with similar interests. This decrements Harstad's overall capacity to hold activities afloat.

Adding insult to injury, commerce here is preposterous. As someone who's lived here for 12 years ( the vast majority of my life ) I would expect it to get better. But my expectations have been met with silence and furniture shops. Before recent times there was at least one shop that could pique the interest of youth subcultures, GameStop. But like most things in Harstad we are not allowed to have nice things, so they shut down. Now we are left with zero intriguing shops, yet 4 furniture shops. That's a lot of sofas.

But finally, we couldn't ignore the Hars ( Norwegian slang for marijuana ) in Harstad. Drugs and crime here are serious issues here. The veins of Harstad's drug network are thick and pulsating, effectively distributing poison around itself. You don't need to look far for examples since most of them are covered on either local or national news. Just scavenging local news there are 125 articles on drugs in Harstad since 2018 <sup>Source: [TEMA: NARKOTIKA](https://www.ht.no/tema/narkotika/)</sup>. That's a lot. Do you want to endanger, friends, family and oneself only to live in a tiny city with 23 000 inhabitants? I didn't think so. And to make things worse there are underground fighting rings that surface here and there just to put the fear of good into yourself <sup>Sources: &bullet; [Politiet er bekymret for voldstrend blant ungdom: – Det er utrolig at ikke flere ligger på akuttmottaket
](https://www.tv2.no/a/11704412/) &bullet; [Fikk meldinger om slåsskamper i Harstad](https://www.ht.no/nyheter/2020/10/19/Fikk-meldinger-om-sl%C3%A5sskamper-i-Harstad-22847201.ece) &bullet; [Slåsskamp i Harstad](https://www.nrk.no/tromsogfinnmark/slasskamp-i-harstad-1.15304780)</sup>.

As a closing statement: Harstad is not the greatest. There's barely anything for the youth to do but even worse, it's barely safe! Yet despite all this evidence the housing prices are still ludicrous. So in conclusion, for anyone who's not a retiree I would recommend not to live here. There are no benefits, not education, not entertainment, nothing.
